ah the first
41 prayers to help us cultivate
bodhichitta so it says may I lead all
sentient beings to the Citadel of
liberation this is the prayer of the
Bodhisattva when entering a house hey so
what this means is every time we enter
into a house we think I am leading all
sentient beings to the Citadel of
liberation to enlightenment I'm taking
them all out of suffering and leading
them to enlightenment so this is a
tremendous mindfulness practice for us
especially when we're walking and
because so often were distracted when we
enter a house were not even aware we're
entering it where my mind is already
where we're going to when we get in
there maybe the refrigerator so our mind
is always in the future there but to
actually pay attention when we're
entering the house and say you know my
highest aspiration and like this to lead
all sentient beings to liberation and
enlightenment and so especially here the
abbey we go in and out of buildings
quite a lot you know and this so to make
that really a mindfulness practice like
ass you're taking your shoes off the
door out you know at the door we can
also add the gotta you know I'm leaving
my defilements behind and then as I'm
going into the house I'm attaining
liberation myself and thus or not
liberation full enlightenment myself and
thus I want to lead all sentient beings
to that same state of Fillan light
and so make that our mindfulness
practice of being present when we're
entering a house and can you imagine
doing this day after day time after time
that imprints the thought of bodhichitta
in the mind again and again and again
and for us to actually generate
bodhichitta we need that repeated
imprint we need again and again to
generate that aspiration so even though
it may seem artificial you know in our
heart of hearts we don't really feel
like we want to lead sentient beings to
liberation we're just kind of thinking
that for you know three seconds so that
we can at least feel good before we go
in the house and get to the refrigerator
but you know it still it's better than
not thinking that at all isn't it you
know just imprinting that thought of
leading all send your bangs to
enlightenment again and again and as we
do this repeatedly then what will start
to happen is we'll start to feel it more
and more and the refrigerator will
become less less interesting okay so
let's try and make that a practice we
might want to write something on the
door because I don't know about you but
I often forget it like sometimes when i
leave my cabin I'll think oh when I
enter the house I want to think I'm
leading all said you means to the
Citadel of liberation and by the time I
get to the house I've forgotten so maybe
that's my practice to at least generate
it when i leave the cabin but it's
better to you know think as you're
entering into the house that you're
entering and deliberation and taking all
sentient beings there with you